.TH CATIMG "1" "April 2026" "catimg" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
catimg \- render images in a terminal

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B catimg
[\fB\-hct\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR | \fB\-H\fR \fIheight\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fIloops\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIresolution\fR]
\fIimage-file\fR

.br
.B catimg
[\fB\-hct\fR]
[\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR | \fB\-H\fR \fIheight\fR]
[\fB\-l\fR \fIloops\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIresolution\fR]
\-

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B catimg
prints images directly in terminals using ANSI escape sequences.
For animated GIFs, it replays frames with their source delays.
Input may be a file path or
.B \-
to read image data from standard input.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
Convert colors to a restricted palette before rendering.
Useful on terminals with limited color support.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR
Show usage information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-H\fR \fIheight\fR
Scale output by image height.
Cannot be used together with
.BR \-w .
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIloops\fR
Number of GIF loop repeats.
A value of 1 displays the animation twice.
A negative value means infinite looping.
Ignored for non-animated images.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR \fIresolution\fR
Rendering precision: 1 or 2.
If omitted, precision is auto-detected from locale UTF-8 support.
.TP
\fB\-t\fR
Disable true color (24-bit), falling back to 256-color output.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR \fIwidth\fR
Scale output by image width.
Cannot be used together with
.BR \-H .

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
\fIimage-file\fR
Path to an image file to render.
Use
.B \-
to read encoded image data from standard input.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B catimg
checks
.BR LC_ALL ,
.BR LANG ,
and
.B LC_CTYPE
for the substring
.B UTF-8
when auto-selecting precision.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments or image loading/rendering failure.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Render a local image:
.br
\fBcatimg\fR \fIphoto.png\fR
.TP
Render with a fixed width:
.br
\fBcatimg -w 80\fR \fIphoto.jpg\fR
.TP
Read from standard input:
.br
\fBcurl -s https://example.com/image.png | catimg -\fR

.SH BUGS
Please report bugs at:
.br
https://github.com/posva/catimg/issues

.SH AUTHORS
catimg was written by Eduardo San Martin Morote.
.br
This manual page was originally written by Jonathan Carter,
Eduardo San Martin Morote, and Thomas Kupper, and later updated
to match current command behavior.
